README.md, before:

# react-router-scroll [![Travis][build-badge]][build] [![npm][npm-badge]][npm]

[React Router](https://github.com/reactjs/react-router) scroll management.

react-router-scroll is a React Router middleware that adds scroll management using [scroll-behavior](https://github.com/taion/scroll-behavior). By default, the middleware adds browser-style scroll behavior, but you can customize it to scroll however you want on route transitions.

**This library does not currently support React Router v4, because React Router v4 has no concept of router middlewares. See ongoing discussion in [#52](https://github.com/taion/react-router-scroll/issues/52). For an interim solution for just scrolling to top on navigation, see the React Router [documentation on scroll restoration](https://reacttraining.com/react-router/web/guides/scroll-restoration).**

## Usage

```js
import { applyRouterMiddleware, browserHistory, Router } from 'react-router';
import { useScroll } from 'react-router-scroll';

/* ... */

ReactDOM.render(
  <Router
    history={browserHistory}
    routes={routes}
    render={applyRouterMiddleware(useScroll())}
  />,
  container
);
```

## Guide

### Installation

```shell
$ npm i -S react react-dom react-router
$ npm i -S react-router-scroll
```

### Basic usage

Apply the `useScroll` router middleware using `applyRouterMiddleware`, as in the example above.

### Custom scroll behavior

You can provide a custom `shouldUpdateScroll` callback as an argument to `useScroll`. This callback is called with the previous and the current router props.

The callback can return:

- a falsy value to suppress updating the scroll position
- a position array of `x` and `y`, such as `[0, 100]`, to scroll to that position
- a string with the `id` or `name` of an element, to scroll to that element
- a truthy value to emulate the browser default scroll behavior

```js
useScroll((prevRouterProps, { location }) => (
  prevRouterProps && location.pathname !== prevRouterProps.location.pathname
));

useScroll((prevRouterProps, { routes }) => {
  if (routes.some(route => route.ignoreScrollBehavior)) {
    return false;
  }

  if (routes.some(route => route.scrollToTop)) {
    return [0, 0];
  }

  return true;
});
```

### Scrolling elements other than `window`

Use `<ScrollContainer>` in components rendered by a router with the `useScroll` middleware to manage the scroll behavior of elements other than `window`. Each `<ScrollContainer>` must be given a unique `scrollKey`, and can be given an optional `shouldUpdateScroll` callback that behaves as above.

```js
import { ScrollContainer } from 'react-router-scroll';

function Page() {
  /* ... */

  return (
    <ScrollContainer
      scrollKey={scrollKey}
      shouldUpdateScroll={shouldUpdateScroll}
    >
      <MyScrollableComponent />
    </ScrollContainer>
  );
}
```

`<ScrollContainer>` does not support on-the-fly changes to `scrollKey` or to the DOM node for its child.

### Notes

#### Minimizing bundle size

If you are not using `<ScrollContainer>`, you can reduce your bundle size by importing the `useScroll` module directly.

```js
import useScroll from 'react-router-scroll/lib/useScroll';
```

#### Server rendering

Do not apply the `useScroll` middleware when rendering on a server. You may use `<ScrollContainer>` in server-rendered components; it will do nothing when rendering on a server.

[build-badge]: https://img.shields.io/travis/taion/react-router-scroll/master.svg
[build]: https://travis-ci.org/taion/react-router-scroll

[npm-badge]: https://img.shields.io/npm/v/react-router-scroll.svg
[npm]: https://www.npmjs.org/package/react-router-scroll

Commit message:

Prepared to release fork as npm package

README.md, after:

# react-router-scroll [![Travis][build-badge]][build] [![npm][npm-badge]][npm]

[React Router](https://github.com/reactjs/react-router) scroll management.

---

## fork: react-router-scroll-internal-history [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/react-router-scroll-internal-history.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-router-scroll-internal-history) [![Travis branch](https://img.shields.io/travis/tommilligan/react-router-scroll/react-router-scroll-internal-history.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/tommilligan/react-router-scroll/react-router-scroll-internal-history)

I was looking to use [react-router-scroll](https://github.com/taion/react-router-scroll), for a work project, but could not because it already uses [history](https://github.com/ReactTraining/history) `@^4.5.1`. This means react-router-scroll:

* generates an `unmet peer dependency` warning
* will not install a compatible version of history for itself
* fails at runtime as `history@^4.0.0` is incompatible

As the `history` module is only used to retrieve information `react-router-scroll` has explicitly stored, it does not need to be the same version of `history` that the rest of the app uses. Therefore, it should be able to be specified as a standard dependency!

`react-router-scroll-internal-history` uses `history@^2.1.2` internally, leaving your app free to use whatever `history` version it likes*

> *only tested in anger with the following  `package.json` dependencies:
>     history@^4.5.1
>     react-router@^3.0.1
>     react-dom@^15.4.2
>     react@^15.4.2

---

react-router-scroll is a React Router middleware that adds scroll management using [scroll-behavior](https://github.com/taion/scroll-behavior). By default, the middleware adds browser-style scroll behavior, but you can customize it to scroll however you want on route transitions.

**This library does not currently support React Router v4, because React Router v4 has no concept of router middlewares. See ongoing discussion in [#52](https://github.com/taion/react-router-scroll/issues/52). For an interim solution for just scrolling to top on navigation, see the React Router [documentation on scroll restoration](https://reacttraining.com/react-router/web/guides/scroll-restoration).**

## Usage

```js
import { applyRouterMiddleware, browserHistory, Router } from 'react-router';
import { useScroll } from 'react-router-scroll';

/* ... */

ReactDOM.render(
  <Router
    history={browserHistory}
    routes={routes}
    render={applyRouterMiddleware(useScroll())}
  />,
  container
);
```

## Guide

### Installation

```shell
$ npm i -S react react-dom react-router
$ npm i -S react-router-scroll
```

### Basic usage

Apply the `useScroll` router middleware using `applyRouterMiddleware`, as in the example above.

### Custom scroll behavior

You can provide a custom `shouldUpdateScroll` callback as an argument to `useScroll`. This callback is called with the previous and the current router props.

The callback can return:

- a falsy value to suppress updating the scroll position
- a position array of `x` and `y`, such as `[0, 100]`, to scroll to that position
- a string with the `id` or `name` of an element, to scroll to that element
- a truthy value to emulate the browser default scroll behavior

```js
useScroll((prevRouterProps, { location }) => (
  prevRouterProps && location.pathname !== prevRouterProps.location.pathname
));

useScroll((prevRouterProps, { routes }) => {
  if (routes.some(route => route.ignoreScrollBehavior)) {
    return false;
  }

  if (routes.some(route => route.scrollToTop)) {
    return [0, 0];
  }

  return true;
});
```

### Scrolling elements other than `window`

Use `<ScrollContainer>` in components rendered by a router with the `useScroll` middleware to manage the scroll behavior of elements other than `window`. Each `<ScrollContainer>` must be given a unique `scrollKey`, and can be given an optional `shouldUpdateScroll` callback that behaves as above.

```js
import { ScrollContainer } from 'react-router-scroll';

function Page() {
  /* ... */

  return (
    <ScrollContainer
      scrollKey={scrollKey}
      shouldUpdateScroll={shouldUpdateScroll}
    >
      <MyScrollableComponent />
    </ScrollContainer>
  );
}
```

`<ScrollContainer>` does not support on-the-fly changes to `scrollKey` or to the DOM node for its child.

### Notes

#### Minimizing bundle size

If you are not using `<ScrollContainer>`, you can reduce your bundle size by importing the `useScroll` module directly.

```js
import useScroll from 'react-router-scroll/lib/useScroll';
```

#### Server rendering

Do not apply the `useScroll` middleware when rendering on a server. You may use `<ScrollContainer>` in server-rendered components; it will do nothing when rendering on a server.

[build-badge]: https://img.shields.io/travis/taion/react-router-scroll/master.svg
[build]: https://travis-ci.org/taion/react-router-scroll

[npm-badge]: https://img.shields.io/npm/v/react-router-scroll.svg
[npm]: https://www.npmjs.org/package/react-router-scroll
